[Music]
Hi, I'm Father Mark Mary with Franciscan
Friars of the Renewal and this is the
Rosary in a Year podcast where through
prayer and meditation, the rosary brings
us deeper into relationship with Jesus
and Mary and becomes a source of grace
for the whole world. The rosary in a
year is brought to you by Ascension.
This is day 148.
To download the prayer plan for rosary
in a year, visit
ascensionpress.com/rosary in a year or
text riy to
333777. You'll get an outline of how
we're going to pray each month and it's
a great way to track your progress. The
best place to listen to this podcast is
in the Ascension app. There are special
features built just for this podcast and
also recordings of the full rosary with
myself and other friars. No matter what
app you're listening in, remember to tap
follow or subscribe for your daily
notifications.
Today we will be meditating upon and
praying with the fifth glorious mystery,
the coronation of Mary's Queen of Heaven
and Earth with help from the painting
entitled The Coronation of the Virgin by
the artist Diego
Velasquez. Okay, brief introduction to
our artist and artwork for today. The
artist Diego Velasquez was born in the
year 1599. He died in the year
1660 and he was one of Spain's greatest
painters and a leading artist of the
Baroque period. Born as the vil, he
began his artistic training at age 12 as
an apprentice. Velesus became a court
painter to King Philip IV of Spain in
the year 1623, a position he held for
the rest of his life. And he developed a
unique style characterized by loose
expressive brush work and masterful use
of light and color. or the coronation of
the Virgin. The painting we're looking
at today was done in the year
1645. In its style, it is of Baroque
style characterized by dramatic realism
and emotional intensity, dynamic use of
light and
shadow which is called Kurasuro and rich
of vibrant colors. There's a sense of
movement and tension, grandeur and
ornate
detailing. And now the visual
description of our
painting. The beautiful rosed cheicked
blessed Virgin Mary cast her eyes down
in complete
humility. Draped in fine purple and blue
robes and a simple white
veil. She's enthroned in an environment
of cloud and a light. Little cherabs
attend at her feet.
Jesus and God the Father depicted as men
with brown and gray hair respectively
sit symmetrically to each other above
her wearing fine purple robes together
hold a crown of
roses that they move to place a top her
glowing
head. The Holy Spirit in the form of a
dove triumphantly spreads its wings
between them emitting a circular radiant
aura of light.
The brightest beam flows directly
through the coronation of roses to the
crown of Mary's
head. Now today I'd like us to pray with
Mary's coronation of queen of heaven and
earth from the perspective of Mary's we
call her three
identities. Mary is a daughter. She's
the daughter of God, the daughter of the
father.
She's also mother of Jesus like mother
of God. Theotoko's Mary is
mother and
Mary is spouse of the
spirit. Mary is daughter. Mary is
mother. Mary is bride. Now I realize
Mary is spouse of the spirit may be new
to some but it does have a long
tradition. and his general audience
entitled the Holy Spirit and Mary model
of the nuptual union of God with
humanity given on May 2nd
1990. Pope John Paul II he wrote this
referring to the
enunciation in this divine espousing of
humanity. Mary responds to the
announcement of the angel with the love
of a
bride capable of responding and adapting
perfectly to the divine election. As a
result of all of this, from the time of
St. Francis of Aisi, the church calls
the virgin the spouse of the Holy
Spirit. Only this perfect nuptual love
profoundly rooted in the complete
virginal self-giving to God can enable
Mary to become the mother of God in a
conscious and worthy way in the mystery
of the
incarnation. Now, invite you to feel
free to look up the audience to read
more if it's a topic of interest to you.
But for our purposes, I simply just
wanted to share this brief papal quote
to give us all some confidence in this
being an acceptable title for our
prayer. Now, as we look at Mary's
coronation in our painting today by
Velasquez, we see all three persons of
the most holy trinity
depicted. And he does it in such a way
that for my prayer, my interpretation at
least, the coronation of Mary, right,
it's clearly an
act of the most holy
trinity. And and here's what I want to
zoom in on. Mary's coronation, like it's
a relational reality. Like at her
coronation, Mary is a daughter being
crowned by her father. At her
coronation, Mary is the mother crowned
by her son. At her coronation, right,
Mary is a
bride crowned by her
spouse. God is love. And the most holy
trinity is the most intense and deep of
love. The father and son and holy
spirit. They love Mary with a love which
we can only begin to
comprehend. And so imagine this moment.
And imagine the love, the joy, like the
delight of the father, the son, and the
holy
spirit. And also now like imagine Mary,
right? Imagine the love, the joy, the
overwhelming power of this moment for
her as daughter and mother and bride.
Mary's coronation as queen of heaven and
earth. Like it's glorious and it's
powerful and it's theologically super
important but at its depths like at its
core like it's the mystery of the most
profound love and joy and
celebration. It calls the mind like
Jesus's
baptism where the heavens parted, the
spirit descended and the father said,
"You are my beloved son with whom I'm
well
pleased." But here at the coronation,
can we prayerfully imagine like the same
sentiment being expressed to
Mary, daughter of the father, like
behold, you are my beloved daughter with
whom I'm well pleased.
And what beautiful words are shared by
Jesus the son by Holy Spirit the spouse
as they crown
her. So I'm going to invite you to
contemplate like to behold to enjoy the
beauty of this
moment and also to meditate on the
father, the son, the holy spirit what
they may have spoken to Mary at this
moment. And imagine Mary and how full
her heart must have
been. We want to like really just hone
in on like the fullness of the joy and
the love of this
moment. We don't forget all that Mary
went
through, but let's remember the end
here. Let's remember the
end. that you and I like we're not
called to be the queen of
heaven, but we are already now like
invited to share in this beautiful
intimacy with the most holy
trinity a relationship that through
baptism we already share in in a
way. And you and I are not called to be
the queen of heaven. And we we don't
have the same relationship particularly
that Mary has to all the persons of the
trinity. But we are called to share in
this most beautiful like intimacy and
love with the Holy
Trinity. As we reflect on their love of
Mary today, may we also reflect on their
love of each of
us. And now like with Mary, daughter of
the father, mother of the son, spouse of
the spirit, queen of heaven and
earth, let us pray. In the name of the
father and of the son and of the holy
spirit.
Amen. Our father, who art in heaven,
hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come,
thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven. Give us this day our daily
bread. And forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those who trespass against
us. And lead us not into temptation, but
deliver us from evil. Amen. Hail Mary,
full of grace, the Lord is with thee.
Blessed art thou among women, and
blessed is the fruit of thy womb,
Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray
for us sinners, now and at the hour of
our death. Amen.
Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is
with thee. Blessed art thou among women,
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb,
Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray
for us sinners, now and at the hour of
our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of
grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed
art thou among women, and blessed is the
fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary,
mother of God, pray for us sinners now
and at the hour of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb,
Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray
for us sinners, now and at the hour of
our death. Amen.
Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is
with thee. Blessed art thou among women,
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb,
Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray
for us sinners, now and at the hour of
our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners now and at the hour
of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now and at the hour
of our death.
Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord
is with thee. Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb,
Jesus. Holy Mary, mother of God, pray
for us sinners, now and at the hour of
our death. Amen. Glory be to the Father
and to the Son and to the Holy Spirit.
As it was in the beginning, is now and
ever shall be, world without end. Amen.
In the name of the Father and of the
Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.
Thanks so much for joining me and
praying with me again today. I look
forward to continuing this journey with
you again tomorrow. Poco Poco friends,
God bless all